---
# Docusaurus header
id: handlebars-template
displayed_sidebar: tev2SideBar
# TEv2 Curated Text Header
term: handlebars-template
termType: concept
isa:
glossaryTerm: "Handlebars Template"
glossaryText: "a blueprint/template that uses the [Handlebars language](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/#what-is-handlebars) to define where and how variable information can be inserted into a predetermined text structure."
glossaryNotes:
- "TEv2 [converters](@) are Handlebars templates."
- "Handlebars templates ([converters](@)) allow for the creation of customizable texts that automatically update with specific data."
- "Handlebars templates ([converters](@)) are characterized by their use of Handlebars expressions within the templates."
grouptags: [ ]
formPhrases: [ "handlebar{ss} template{ss}", "handlebar{ss}" ]
# Curation status
status: proposed
created: 20230731
updated: 20230731
# Origins/Acknowledgements
contributors: RieksJ
attribution: "[TNO Terminology Design](https://tno-terminology-design.github.io/tev2-specifications/docs)"
originalLicense: "[CC BY-SA 4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/?ref=chooser-v1)"
---

# Handlebars Templates

A [handlebars template](@) is a blueprint that uses the [Handlebars language](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/#what-is-handlebars) to define where and how variable information can be inserted into a predetermined text structure. This allows for the creation of customizable texts that automatically update with specific data. Handlebars templates are characterized by their use of Handlebars expressions within the templates.

[Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/#what-is-handlebars) is a simple templating language. It uses a [handlebars template](@) and an input object to generate output texts, in any format you like. [Handlebars templates](@) look like regular text with embedded handlebars expressions, which consist of a `{{`, followed by some contents, and a closing `}}`. When a template is executed, these expressions are replaced with values from an input object.

## Purpose

The purpose of Handlebars templates is to separate the logic of data manipulation from the presentation layer, facilitating maintainability and readability. This approach enables developers to create templates that can be reused with different data, leading to more efficient code and a clearer separation of concerns within web applications.

Within the context of [TEv2](@), [converters](@) are typically specified as (predefined, or custom) [handlebars templates](@). The [converter profile](@) of a [text conversion tool](@) specifies the class of objects that a particular [converter](@) for that [tool](text-conversion-tool@) works on.

The [converter profile](@) for a particular [text conversion tool](@) is specified in the documentation for that tool. See, e.g., the [TRRT converter profile](/docs/specs/tools/trrt#converter-profile), or the [HRGT converter profile](/docs/specs/tools/hrgt#converter-profile).

## Examples

Here are some (simple) examples for [handlebars templates](@) that are used within the context of [TEv2]

### Handlebars template for generating a Markdown link for a TermRef

Resolving [TermRefs](@) (which is what the [TRRT](@) does) requires the creation of a text that, in the case of the [TEv2](@) static website, can be rendered by Docusaurus. So the [handlebars template](@) might generate, e.g., HTML, or markdown. Here is an example of the [TRRT](@) [converter](@) that is used to convert a [TermRef](@) into a markdown-link:

``` handlebars
[{{showtext}}]({{navurl}}{{#if trait}}#{{trait}}{{/if}})
```

The [TRRT](@) handlebars object specifies the variables `showtext`, `navurl`, and `trait` (and quite a few more). This template will thus prorivide a markdown link to the location pointed to by `navurl`, 

### Handlebars template for generating a HRG entry

[Human readable glossaries](@) are created by the [HRGT](@), which uses [converters](@) to generate entries for that [glossary](@). The data object on which the [converter](@) works includes the data that is availble in the [MRG entry](@) of the [semantic unit](@) for which the [HRG entry](@) is to be generated.

Here is a simple [handlebars template](@) that generates a [HRG entry](@) that is a level-2 markdown section of which the title is taken from the `glossaryTerm` field in the [MRG entry](@), and that contains a paragraph that contains the text that is available in the `glossaryText` field of that [entry](mrg-entry@):

``` handlebars
## [{{glossaryTerm}}]({{localize navurl}})\n\n{{glossaryText}}\n\n
```

where `\n` is a newline (line break).

Notes:
- users can click on the text generated by `{{glossaryTerm}}`, as it is also a link to the page that documents the [semantic unit](@) for which the [HRG entry](@) was generated.
- `{{localize navurl}}` is a handlebars expression that uses the [helper function](#localize@) `localize`.
